# AXP803
The **AXP803** is the PMIC (Power Management IC) developed by [X-Powers][5917], a sister company of [Allwinner][5918]. 
## Contents
  * [1 Overview][5919]
    * [1.1 Interrupts][5920]
  * [2 Spec sheets][5921]
  * [3 See also][5922]
  * [4 References][5923]

## Overview
AXP803 is customized PMIC for multi-power rails required SOC platform. 
AXP803 is a highly integrated PMIC targeting at Li-battery (Li-ion or Li-polymer) applications that require multi-channel power conversion outputs. It provides an easy and flexible power management solution for processors to meet the increasingly complex and accurate requirements on power control. 
AXP803 comes with an adaptive USB3.0-compatible Flash Charger that supports up to 2.8A charge current. It also supports 22 channels power outputs (including 6-CH DCDCs). To ensure the security and stability of the power system, AXP803 provides multiple channels 12-bit ADC for voltage/current/temperature monitor and integrates protection circuits such as OVP, UVP, OTP, and OCP. Moreover, AXP803 features a unique E-GaugeTM(Fuel Gauge) system, making power gauge easy and exact. 
In addition, AXP803 embraces a fast interface for the system to dynamically adjust output voltage and enable power outputs so that the battery life can be extended to the largest extent. Besides, AXP803 features an IPSTM (Intelligent Power Select) circuit to transparently select power path among ACIN/USB and Li-battery to system load. 
AXP803 is available in 8mm x 8mm 68-pin QFN package, and the package is Pb free. 
#### Interrupts
## Spec sheets
[AXP803 Datasheet v1.0][5924]
## See also
  * [AXP803/PMIC control Linux][5925] — how to read information

## References
