# V851s
V851s  
---  
Manufacturer|  Allwinner  
CPU|  ARM Cortex-A7 @ 900Mhz  
RISC-V @ 600MHz  
Extensions|  NEON, VFPv3  
Memory|  64MB SiP DDR2  
VPU|  [Cedar Engine][57945]  
Connectivity  
Video|  RGB, MIPI-DSI, MIPI-CSI  
Audio|  Mic, Line-out, I2S, DMIC  
Network|  -  
Storage|  SD Card 3.0, eMMC 4.5, SPI  
USB|  1 (1 OTG)  
Other|  0.5 TOPS NPU  
[Allwinner][57946] **V851s** is SoC with build-in ARM Cortex A7 CPU ARM, RISC-V and NPU, intended for the IP-camera market. Since the V3s is NRND from AllWinner, the V851s is the new recommended chip from AllWinner for this application. 
## Contents
  * [1 Overview][57947]
    * [1.1 Main components of the V851S:][57948]
  * [2 Documentation][57949]
  * [3 Software][57950]
  * [4 Quirks/Learnings for people wanting to mainline this chip][57951]
  * [5 Bootloaders][57952]

# Overview
## Main components of the V851S:
  * CPU: [Cortex-A7 900MHz (ARM v7-A) Processor][57953] which have both [VFPv4][57954] and [NEON][57955] co-processors: 
    * FPU: [Vector Floating Point Unit][57954] (standard ARM VFPv4 FPU Floating Point Unit)
    * SIMD: [NEON][57955] (ARM's extended general-purpose SIMD vector processing extension engine)
  * CPU: RISC-V 600MHz (unknown ISA extensions)
  * NPU: 0.5 TOPS. Seems to be some Vivante IP

The V851SE is a sister chip to the V851S integrating an ethernet PHY. Whilst they are very similar, some things are very different, like the pin-muxing. 
# Documentation
# Software
There is no mainline kernel support for the V851S(E) currently. Neither is there support for it in U-Boot 
# Quirks/Learnings for people wanting to mainline this chip
Pretty much all typical peripherals in the V851s are already supported by mainline. Notable differences is the pinctrl (basically identical to the D1 pinctrl, but different muxing, of course), and the CCU(s). The V851S has _two_ CCUs. The regular one and a PRCM that's mainly used to facilitate the RISC-V core, but some peripherals on the ARM side needs some clocks it provides. 
Periperals and driver-compatibility  Peripheral | Driver   
---|---  
PPU | drivers/pmdomain/sunxi/sun20i-ppu.c   
RTC | drivers/rtc/rtc-sun6i.c   
usbphy | drivers/phy/allwinner/phy-sun4i-usb.c   
NMI INTC | "allwinner,sun9i-a80-nmi"   
msgbox | "allwinner,sun8i-h3-msgbox"   
hwspinlock | "allwinner,sun6i-a31-hwspinlock"   
timer | "allwinner,sun20i-d1-timer"   
uart | "snps,dw-apb-uart"   
i2c | "allwinner,sun8i-v536-i2c"   
syscon | "allwinner,sun8i-h3-system-control"   
spi | "allwinner,sun50i-r329-spi"   
dma | "allwinner,sun20i-d1-dma"   
mbus | "allwinner,sun20i-d1-mbus"   
mmc | "allwinner,sun20i-d1-mmc"   
usb_otg | "allwinner,sun8i-a33-musb"   
wdt | "allwinner,sun20i-d1-wdt-reset"   
gpadc | "allwinner,sun20i-d1-gpadc"   
hstimer | "allwinner,sun7i-a20-hstimer"   
# Bootloaders
While there isn't support for this chip in U-Boot, both awboot and xboot supports it.
